.TH OPTBOT 1 LOCAL
.SH NAME
optbot - parse command line options

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B optbot [ -a
.I argument_description
.B ] --
.I given_arguments

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B optbot
allows parsing of command line options given to a shell script.  It does this
by utilizing
.BR liboptbot (1)
to handle argument descriptions given with
.B -a
options.  Options given after the
.B --
flag are treated as parameters to be parsed according to the given argument
descriptions.  If the given parameters are acceptable, assignments are
output to STDOUT as shell code for evaluation in the context in which
they will be used.  Error messages are printed to STDERR for any parsing
failures.

.IP given_arguments
These are the flags passed to the calling script.  These will usually be given
via
.B $@
\.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-a, --add_arg argument_description"
Add an argument descriptor.  This should be a comma seperated list of
four elements.
.IP 1.
The short option name
.IP 2.
The long option name
.IP 3.
The description of the option. Used for generating help output.
.IP 4.
"true" or "false" value,
determining whether or not this option takes values
.IP
Any of the first three options may be left blank.

.IP "-p, --prefix varaible_prefix"
The prefix that should be prepended to the variables assigned in this
script's output.  Must be shorter than 16 characters.

.IP "-h, --help"
Prints help

.IP "-d, --delimiter"
The character used to seperate arguments to --add-arg.  "," by default.

.IP "-f, --fail_var"
Prints <prefix>_success=false; on failure.  Can be used to check the success of
the script if -e is not specified.

.IP "-e, --exit_on_failure"
Causes an exit command to be printed on failure.  Should be used to cease
termination of the calling script with nonzero status.

.SH EXAMPLES

.IP
.B eval `optbot -av,verbose,"Should this script run in verbose mode?",false -- -v`
.IP
This will set $arg_verbose to true in the calling script.

.IP
.B eval `optbot -af,file,"Add an output file",true -- -f one.txt --file two.txt`
.IP
This will set $arg_file to the first given argument, one.txt in this case.
$arg_file_n will be set to the number of given arguments, 2 in this case.
$arg_file_1 and $arg_file_2 will be set to one.txt and two.txt, respectively.
